This list of python project ideas for students is suited for beginners, and those just starting out with Python or Data Science in general.
These python project ideas will get you going with all the practicalities you need to succeed in your career as a Python developer.

1. Mad Libs Generator

One of the best ideas to start experimenting you hands-on python projects for students is working on Mad Libs Generator. 
This is the perfect project for beginners who are just starting out with software development. Primarily focused on strings,
variables, and concatenation, this project will teach you how to manipulate user-inputted data. 
The program design is such that it will ask users to enter a series of inputs that will be considered as a Mad Lib.

2. Number Guessing

This is one of the simple python projects yet an exciting one .
You can even call it a mini-game. This project is particularly useful for beginners.
Make a program in which the computer randomly chooses a number between 1 to 10, 1 to 100, or any range.
Then give users a hint to guess the number.
Every time the user guesses wrong, he gets another clue, and his score gets reduced.
The clue can be multiples, divisible, greater or smaller, or a combination of all.

3. Text-based Adventure Game

This is a basic version of the Adventure game. It is completely text-based.
In this version of the game, users can move about through different rooms within a single,
setting, and based on the user input, it will provide descriptions for each room.
This is one of the more interesting python projects for beginners.

4. Dice Rolling Simulator

As the name of the program suggests, we will be imitating a rolling dice.
This is one of the interesting python projects and will generate a random number each dice the program runs, 
and the users can use the dice repeatedly for as long as he wants.
When the user rolls the dice, the program will generate a random number between 1 and 6 (as on a standard dice).

5. Hangman

This is more of a “guess the word” game. 
The core concepts you have to use while developing this project are variables,
random, integer, strings, char, input and output, and boolean.
In the game, users have to enter letter guesses, 
and each user will have a limited number of guesses (a counter variable is needed for limiting the guesses).
The Hangman is among the most highly recommended projects to master python for beginners.

7. Email Slicer

This is one of the convenient python projects that has a lot of use in the future.
To create an Email slicer with python, users have to generate a program to retrieve the username and domain of the email.
You can even customize the application and send a message to the host with this information.
Although it is a simple coding project idea, it is instrumental in enhancing your coding skills.

8. Binary search algorithm

Have you ever heard the proverb, “finding a needle in a haystack.” 
This program is designed to do just that- by using a binary search algorithm.
ou can create a list of random numbers between 0 to 100, with every succeeding number having a difference of 2 between them.

9. Desktop Notifier App
Have you ever wondered how notifications work? This small python project idea will throw some light on this.
The desktop notifier apps run on your system and send you a piece of information after a fixed interval of time.
We suggest you use libraries such as notify2, requests, etc. to build such a program.

10. Python Story Generator

Here, the aim is to create a random story each time the user runs the program.
The story will be the same always but with little variation with the input.
This is a fun but exciting python project which will work wonders with beginners to gain confidence in python.
